.. _config_ref tasks ligate ccd:

``ccd``
=======

Parameters for the CCD loop closer (used when method is 'ccd')

Single-valued attributes:

  * ``seed``: RNG seed; a fixed default keeps builds reproducible (default: 27021972)

  * ``max_iters``: maximum CCD sweeps per loop (default: 2000)

  * ``tol``: end-effector convergence RMSD (Angstrom) (default: 0.1)

  * ``ensemble``: Number of independent Ramachandran-seeded closures to try per loop; each is polished by the iterative declash refiner and the candidate that introduces the fewest steric clashes with the rest of the structure is kept. Larger values improve the odds of a clash-free loop at the cost of more (cheap, offline) closures. (default: 10)

  * ``refine``: Iterations of iterative declash refinement (perturb-and-reclose simulated annealing on the symmetry-aware clash score) applied to each closed candidate. This is what walks a crowded or axially-symmetric loop (e.g. gp41 HR1N in a trimer) into the clash-free region that random sampling alone rarely finds. 0 disables refinement (pure ensemble). (default: 250)

  * ``thread_ca``: Loops are closed in parallel. Set > 0 to re-close, sequentially, any pair of loops whose backbones come closer than this Ca-Ca separation (Angstrom) after the parallel pass. Off by default (0): verification shows the mutual overlaps from parallel closure are ordinary clashes the downstream minimize resolves, not topological interlinks, so no re-closure is needed. (default: 0.0)

  * ``guard``: Keep the protein background (and the loop's symmetry images) present during the CCD closure and reject any bond rotation that increases the deep-clash count, so the loop closes without being driven into the structure. Off by default (the per-bond clash check is costly); enable for stubborn, crowded loops (e.g. gp41 HR1N converging at a trimer axis), ideally with refinement on. (default: False)

  * ``on_clash``: What to do when a closed loop is topologically broken (interpenetrates the fold or threads itself -- overlaps that no minimization can undo). 'warn' (default) logs a prominent warning and continues; 'error' aborts the build. Single-CCD closure is reliable only for short, solvent-exposed loops; longer/buried loops require the KIC generator (see docs/design/loop-modeling.md). (default: warn)



.. raw:: html

   <div class="autogen-footer">
     <p>This page was generated by ycleptic v2.0.6 on 2026-07-21.</p>
   </div>