.. _config_ref namd:

``namd``
========

These are specifications for NAMD3, including default input configuration parameters for various classes of simulations.

Single-valued attributes:

  * ``namd-version``: version of NAMD to run (default: 3)

  * ``processor-type``: Deprecated and ignored: GPU mode is now auto-detected by comparing paths.namd3 and paths.namd3gpu. This entry is accepted for backward compatibility but has no effect. (default: cpu)

  * ``ncpus``: number of processing elements (PEs) for NAMD; 0 means auto-detect from SLURM environment or local CPU count (default: 0)

  * ``cpu-parallel-launcher``: How CPU-mode NAMD is launched when running under SLURM. 'auto' (the default) uses 'numactl' for a single-node allocation and 'srun' when SLURM_NNODES > 1, since a single-node multicore launch cannot span nodes. 'numactl' runs a single-node multicore/SMP NAMD build via 'numactl --interleave=all namd3 +p N'. 'srun' launches an MPI NAMD build across every allocated SLURM task (nodes x ntasks-per-node), which is required to span multiple nodes. 'mpirun' launches an MPI NAMD build via the MPI runtime's own process manager ('mpirun -np N namd3'); use this when plain srun leaves ranks as independent 1-PE jobs (common with Intel MPI). 'charmrun' launches a net (charmrun) NAMD build across nodes via charmrun's MPI launcher. (default: auto)

  * ``srun-mpi-type``: PMI plugin passed to srun as '--mpi=<type>' (e.g. pmi2 or pmix) when cpu-parallel-launcher resolves to 'srun'. Empty (the default) emits a bare 'srun'. Set this if srun launches every rank as an independent 1-PE MPI job; the valid values come from 'srun --mpi=list' on your cluster. (default: )



Container-like attributes:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   namd/gpu-resident
   namd/deprecated3
   namd/generic
   namd/vacuum
   namd/solvated
   namd/thermostat
   namd/barostat
   namd/membrane
   namd/harmonic


.. raw:: html

   <div class="autogen-footer">
     <p>This page was generated by ycleptic v2.0.6 on 2026-07-21.</p>
   </div>