.. _config_ref tasks mdplot timeseries:

``timeseries``
--------------

The list of quantities to plot as time-series panels.  Each element produces a separate figure; to overlay multiple quantities on one panel, make that element itself a list.

Quantities are drawn from the NAMD ``ENERGY:`` output lines or from the XST file (cell dimensions and derived quantities).  Available columns include:

- ``density`` — **pestifer-computed** (not a native NAMD output); derived from the total system mass (read from the ``Info: TOTAL MASS`` line in the log) divided by the ``VOLUME`` column at each step; units are g/cc; only available for periodic (solvated) simulations where NAMD reports ``VOLUME``
- ``a_x``, ``b_y``, ``c_z`` — simulation cell dimensions from the XST file (Å)
- ``BOND``, ``ANGLE``, ``DIHED``, ``IMPRP`` — bonded energy terms (kcal/mol)
- ``ELECT``, ``VDW``, ``BOUNDARY``, ``MISC`` — non-bonded and miscellaneous energy terms (kcal/mol)
- ``KINETIC``, ``POTENTIAL``, ``TOTAL``, ``TOTAL3`` — total energy terms (kcal/mol)
- ``TEMP``, ``TEMPAVG`` — temperature (K)
- ``PRESSURE``, ``GPRESSURE``, ``PRESSAVG``, ``GPRESSAVG`` — pressure (bar)
- ``VOLUME`` — simulation box volume (Å³)

X-axis
++++++

The bottom x-axis shows **simulation time** in ps or ns, chosen automatically: ps when the total run duration is less than 1000 ps, ns otherwise.
Simulation time is computed as the cumulative sum of ``TIMESTEP × ΔTS`` across all log entries, so chained runs with different timestep sizes are handled correctly.

The **top spine** shows the corresponding integer NAMD timestep index (``TS``) as a secondary axis.

Y-axis and units
++++++++++++++++

Unit labels for all standard NAMD output columns are inferred automatically from NAMD defaults; no ``units`` override is needed for these quantities.

For energetic quantities (kcal/mol), if the maximum absolute value in the time series exceeds 1000 kcal/mol, the axis is automatically scaled by 1/1000 and labeled **1000 kcal/mol** to keep tick magnitudes readable.

Example
+++++++

.. code-block:: yaml

   timeseries:
   - density
   - - a_x
     - b_y
     - c_z
   - TOTAL
   - TEMP
   - PRESSURE

.. raw:: html

   <div class="autogen-footer">
     <p>This page was generated by ycleptic v2.0.3 on 2026-03-04.</p>
   </div>
