.. _config_ref tasks psfgen source exclude:

``exclude``
===========

This is a dictionary that specifies any residues or atoms present in the PDB source to exclude from the system.  
You can specify chains, resnames, resseqnums, and altlocs to ignore.  If you specify a chain, all residues in that chain will be ignored.  
If you specify a resname, all residues with that resname will be ignored.  If you specify a resseqnum, all residues with that resseqnum will be ignored.  
If you specify an altloc, all residues with that altloc will be ignored.  This is useful for excluding stabilizing ligands (like antibody fragments) or small molecules for which a CHARMM36 topology does not exists.  (The latter can be handled outside Pestifer using, for example, CGenFF.)


Example:
++++++++

.. code-block:: yaml

   exclude:
     chains:
     - A
     - B
     resnames:
     - YYZ
     - 888
     resseqnums:
     - 100
     - 101
     - 102
     altlocs:
     - A
     - B

Single-valued parameters:

  * ``chains``: Specify list of chain IDs to ignore; in PDB-format input, these are typically author-generated, while in mmCIF they are not.  You must use chain IDs that reference your chosen coordinate file input format.

  * ``resnames``: Specify list of resnames to ignore; good for excluding waters or ions or small molecules.  Resnames must reference your chosen coordinate input file.

  * ``resseqnums``: Specify list of resseqnums to ignore

  * ``altlocs``: Specify list of altlocs to ignore; good for excluding alternate conformations



.. raw:: html

   <div class="autogen-footer">
     <p>This page was generated by ycleptic v1.8.1 on 2025-08-12.</p>
   </div>